#summary Getting Started

= Getting started =

  * Download firmware and manual
  * Restart robot with terminal connected
  * [CommandMode Start in Command mode]
  * [InputMode Input] your program
  * Look through examples

= Details =

== Get and download firmware ==
Download latest firmware (.HEX) and upload on to the RBC module using the [http://robobuilderlib.googlecode.com/files/rbctool.jpg RBCUpgrade] tool as per Robobuilder [http://robosavvy.com/RoboSavvyPages/Robobuilder/UsersManual/Robobuilder_User_Guide_EN.pdf manual pg 70].

If you're not using Windows, you can still download the custom firmware into your bot using the [ http://www.strout.net/info/robotics/utilities/avrbl-downloader/AVRBL Downloader tool]. Or there's a Java based tool available in the source tree.

If you want just to try it out (and not load on to Robot) then there are  windows and Linux OS builds is available  (basic.exe). It input/outputs using console. Some Robot hardware functions are available if the robot is running DCMP firmware connected om serial port.

== Connect terminal ==

So assuming you have downloaded the program (and installed the firmware) - reset the power on the RBC and connect a [http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html VT100 terminal emulator] on the serial port (i.e. COM1 at 115200). You should see the following:
{{{
Basic v=$Revision: 538 $
Commands: i r l c z q s V R F $

16 servos connected
0 lines in memory
:
}}}

== Now in command mode ==

Now enter program and run. If the program ever gets into a recurring loop (either accidentally or deliberately) then press 'Esc' on the PC keyboard. If that fails then hit the 'OFF' button (on the robot!)

Notice how each time you enter input mode its adds to the current program. If you want to start over then press 'c.  To run the program press 'r' (and then Esc!)